#summary documentation of what the protocol is.

= Introduction =

This is an attempt to document the process to connect to DAAP server (mainly iTunes) and control the playback. All the following information has been figured out using a network dump program; the iTunes binary has not be reverse-engineered in any way, and neither have any of the libraries that it links to. In addition, we (the contributors to the project) make no claims that the following information is valid, so use it at your own risk.

This work also relies on several sources of informations which are:
  * [http://dacp.jsharkey.org/ Jeff Sharkey]
  * [http://tapjam.net/daap/ another unofficial documentation]
  * [http://daap.sourceforge.net/docs/index.html daap.sourceforge.net]


= About protocols =

First of all about the stack. It's still unclear to me what's the difference between several acronyms but I'll try to define them:

*DAAP*: Digital Audio Access Protocol. I think this is the specification of the server in itself. Here is the description on wikipedia:
 A DAAP server is a specialized HTTP server, which performs two functions. It sends a list of songs and it streams requested songs to clients. There are also provisions to notify the client of changes to the server. Requests are sent to the server by the client in form of URLs and are responded to with data in application/x-dmap-tagged mime-type, which can be converted to XML by the client. iTunes uses the ZeroConf (also known as Bonjour) service to announce and discover DAAP shares on a local subnet. The DAAP service uses TCP port 3689 by default.

*DACP*:Digital Audio Control Protocol. This is explained on Wikipedia as being the protocol used the re;ote clients to connect to a DACP enabled server. Well this doesn't really help. I think this is more an augmented set of calls on DAAP.

*DMAP*:Digital Metadata Access Protocol? The definition is unclear but I htink this an acronym to group the definition of the metadata information exchanged between DAAP client and servers. There is more information on this when talking about content-codes below.

from all of this what I can say is that DACP is a superset of DAAP and both use DMAP to echange informations.

= Discovery =

As mentioned in Wikipedia, we use Bonjour (zeroConf) to discover a DAAP server. The service to discover is named `_touch-able._tcp`. Jeff Sharkey is also looking up for the `_dacp._tcp` service but I don't think this is useful (and I don't even remember what it returns).

The lookup will return you zero or more services. Each service is a DAAP server. You now have to resolve it to get more informations on the service and especially:
  * its library name
  * its IP address
  * its port

the library name is contained in the TXTRecordData for the service under the `CtlN` key. For the moment it's sufficient to go ahead and connect to the server.